Okay. Because of personality defects, a few
people didn't get along very well with them. And
interestingly enough, the Venezuelan officers
pretty much expected perfection from us,
although they'd accept less for themselves. I
thought that was an interesting relationship.
If you really applied yourself in trying to help
them and doing the job you were there to do, they
appreciated it and they respected you for it.
They had the idea that some of the people were there
to enjoy their life rather than work. But some of
the Americans were. Some of the Americans, but
that's not really true. What really happened,
this personality thing worked both ways, but
There were a few cases in which Venezuelan
commanders simply didn't want this advisor
around for whatever reason. And so they became
ineffective because they weren't accepted, not
because of personality or anything of the sort.
They just didn't want that advice or help or
interference, however they looked upon it. And it
was easy to be put in a position of interference.
you know, tried not to distinguish, and that
almost got me in trouble one time, but basically I
think it was sound. Okay, will you tell me about
that one time? Well, I would just say very briefly
that, yes, I won't go into detail, but in my core, in
the course of my learning Spanish, I also picked up
colloquialisms,
and It's interesting that in Spanish, and I
suppose this to some degree is true in English, but
these colloquialisms mean different things to
different people depending on what country
you're from. I know Venezuelans who come in to me,
they were very careful when they went to Mexico of
how they used certain terms because they meant
different things. Some of them bugger it. And I
also learned after the fact that some of their
colloquialism used in common, ordinary
conversation under certain circumstances is
very damaging. And I was guilty of doing that. He
said, he thought, an officer thought that I'd
insulted him by using such a colloquialism when I
was, appeared to be angry to him, which was under
such circumstances, if intentional, would have
been an insult. Anyway, he made an official
complaint that resulted in an investigation
that,
because he'd complained, it had to be reported
formally. And I was completely exonerated as
having been not at all intentional
in misusing that word. In fact, didn't understand
it. And to a man, the Venezuelan officers that
testified supported my innocence. And I, of
course, appreciate that because I think that's a
little bit difficult to do when a foreign
officer's involved. And it turned out not to be a
big thing, but it did bother me a great deal at the
time. And it could have been damaging for your
career. It could have been very damaging, as it
was. I wish I had asked for a copy of that report
because that would have probably been... of more
value in my file than the efficiency report I got
from my boss, as it were. Because the Venezuelans
supported you so much. Yeah. Then we left there.
Well, I was wondering, before we leave there, is
that school still in existence? It is, and as a
matter of fact, my wife and I, Fran and I, were
invited back ten years later as guests to the
Venezuelan Army to observe the tenth year
observance of the formation of that school.
We were asked to stay for a month, and we stayed, I
think, ten days. We were just royally treated.
They did have a fine ceremony. Incidentally,
Lieutenant Colonel Quevedo, who
was the first commandant at this point, was
commander-in-chief of the Army. of Venezuela.
And interestingly enough,
when Pérez Jiménez, the dictator, was kicked out
in, I believe it was 1954,
Coveto was one of the three-man junta that
reorganized the government, decreed the
Constitutional Convention that set up the
present government form under the present
Constitution, which provided for two houses of
Congress, a president serving a five-year tour.
In other words, our basic pattern of the executive
legislative judicial
got a commitment from the armed forces. The
Minister of Defense proclaimed that never again
would the Venezuelan armed forces be used against
the government, only to support the government.
And they're now in their fifth five-year
presidency without interruption or serious
incident. Incidentally, General Collado became
a senator. He did? After he retired from the Army in
this system that he helped create. And I consider
him a patriot. What kind of man is Govedo? Oh, he's a
fine man. He's very likable and very personal.
Just from his physical appearance, and I don't
know this to be the case, but I would say he's half
Indian, or he's got a lot of Indian blood in him, but
he's a good native son, and he was a very effective
and popular officer, and obviously able to handle
the high position of responsibility that he found
himself in as a member of the governing junta. Was
he from a wealthy family? No. Most of the
Venezuelan officers are not from wealthy
families. Some are.
Many of them, of course, their social status is
improved by going through the academy and
becoming an officer.
I went to Venezuela on business a couple of times in
about 1975 and 1977, I guess it was. On that return
in 1975, I had a wonderful experience of
recontacting many of these officers. My very best
friend that I made there was Enrique Peña Briseño.
He was a lieutenant when I arrived in Venezuela,
and he became a general officer. And so we had a good
reunion there. I'd had a reunion with him in
Washington and Rome in the intervening years. We
maintained this friendship, he and others. But he
was my best Venezuelan friend. Anyway, most of
those officers in that first class that I
conducted became general officers. It was
remarkable.
And as a matter of fact, when I went back there in 75,
General Cabello was then retired, and he hosted a
reception, cocktail reception, for me, and
invited all of these people and their wives that he
could get in touch with. And it was just a wonderful
reunion. Of course, we'd done this on that ten year
anniversary too, so you can see the continuity has
been maintained rather surprisingly well. Now
there were a couple of events that were very
important on the international scene when you
were in Venezuela. One was the Korean War. Did you
want to go to the war? Did you volunteer? No, I
didn't volunteer. I arrived in Venezuela six
months before that war started.
I left there in 1952 and all of the intensive
purchases were over. We have in the Army what you
call a stabilized tour. In other words, you're
sent there and you won't be moved until that tour is
completed. But this was a peculiar one in
Venezuela. We were under contract with the
Venezuelan Army. As a matter of fact, the
Venezuelan Army paid me, in addition to my Army
pay, $250,000. $87 a month. What that was was not a
salary, that was a cost of living differential,
but it was kind of a hold on us, you see, and a
contract with us. So, I was in effect pinned down
there those three years. Of course, one of the
major events in recent military history was the
firing of General MacArthur. What did you think of
Truman's action?
I'm a great admirer of General MacArthur's, and I
think he's one of the greatest generals we ever
produced. He's one of the greatest strategists
we've ever produced. I felt President Truman was
correct. He had to do what he did. Very simple.
After all, he's commander-in-chief. If it had
been MacArthur and him, Lieutenant General down
below him had been the same thing. Anytime a
subordinate cannot accept the policy direction
of his superior, he's got to resign or get fired,
one or the other. He got fired.
I never had any question about it, much as I
regretted it.
Okay. Let's move on now. After this, you went to
student at the U.S. Command and General Staff
College from August 1952 to July 1953. This is a
very important event in your career advancement,
isn't it? It is. And that's probably the most
useful school training that I received in the
Army. And I did attend, of course, the artillery
school and the war college as well. in some special
schools. But anyway— You thought it was more
important than the War College? I do, and I'll tell
you why. Good. It was very demanding of time.
Incidentally, our second child daughter was born
at Leavenworth. Our first child son was born in
Venezuela.
I thought of that because I had so little time to
enjoy our baby daughter. I was so busy. Our son, by
the way, had a dual citizenship, and he had to make a
choice at the age of eighteen, according to
Venezuelan law. And, of course, the choice was
easy, the choice of citizenship. The Command and
General Staff College prepares officers for
general staff work at all levels, and it prepares
him for command of units through the division and
corps. You know, we have the company battalion,
regiment, or brigade, brigade now, division,
corps, and field army. Well, this brought the
students through the division and corps phase of
planning and commanding. It was very demanding,
the very because we were always moving at a pace
that you could never quite finish the race before,
today's race, before the bar starts. And it was
planned that way. And it's rather disconcerting,
but it's surprising after it's all over how much of
that exposure you retain. But it was just an
excellent, very best instruction, too,
quality-wise. But it, I felt, prepared me for just
about any job that I'd be assigned in the Army. It
gave me a good base to begin any assignment in the
Army. How would you compare that with two years
later when you went to the Army War College? Well,
it was two assignments later that I went to the Army
War College. August 1956 to November 1950. Well,
the War College, I think they're very
complementary, but if I had to choose one as being
the most important, the most valuable to me, it was
the Command Staff College. The War College, on the
other hand, is the level at which you study
national strategy and military strategy. So you
see, it complements, it picks up basically where
the Command Staff College leaves off, and that's
the way it's designed. I thought the experience in
the
War College was invaluable.
It was the first time since I entered the Army, that
I and my contemporaries who sat with me there had
the opportunity, the time, and the environment to
really think policy strategy.
Now, strange as it may seem, if you're on the road
that far, you're always so, or I was always so
committed to the job that you just had to deal with
what was at hand, you know. Sure. So it was a
wonderful experience. We used seminars and
committees and lectures, and there was plenty of
time for individual thought and committee and
contribution to the committee work. And we'd
treat with a series of, aspects of national and
military strategy policy and strategy through
the year and so it was just a very fine rounding of uh
for example i left uh between leavenworth the
command staff college and the war cars i went to the
pentagon that's my first full tour on the army
staff and i was in a position there to to observe
this policy and strategy in action because I wound
up as assistant executive officer to the chief
planning officer of the Army, planning and
operations officer of the Army, the G3, General
James Gavin at the time I joined that office. And,
of course,
never had in the course of my job to really—and it
wasn't my position to—to really making my own
judgment on some of these things that were so
important to the Army and the nation. But when I got
to the War College, then we were told to look at
these things, and particularly look to the
future. Sure. And make up, get our own
convictions. You asked me in conversation if I
thought it was practical to have tactical,
use tactical nuclear weapons in war. Mm-hmm. I
came to the conclusion as a student at War College
that it's going to be done someday. The question
is, where does this nuclear exchange stop? I can't
see, for example, the U.S. Army in Europe and its
NATO allies accepting initial defeat by the
Russians should they ever decide to make a
conventional attack. I can't see them accepting
initial defeat forward and give up East Germany
because- I mean West Germany. I mean West Germany
because there's no stopping point then once
that West Germany is breached that I can see.
think rather than accept such a defeat that we
would use nuclear weapons which could stop the
advance of those forces because of the geography
and character of the terrain that they've got to
come over
but at the same time they're then going to bring
them into play and where does this stop and that is
what gives credence to the deterrence of these
vast nuclear weapons we have that that i say must
never be used So I guess rather than hoping, I'm
reasoning that we will have effective
deterrents, because it's unthinkable that we
would let the use of small tactical nuclear
weapons evolve into increasing exchanges that
wind up with an exchange of thermonuclear
weapons. It's suicide. These are the types of
issues that you discuss. Those are the types of
issues that we discuss. Plus, for example, at the
War College. I remember another one. I came to the
conclusion, and each has his own opportunity, you
know, make his own conclusions, that we should
make our peace with Communist China.
We could not hope to survive a concerted, joint,
opposition militarily or between China and
Russia against us joint their joint undertaking
against us they could overrun the vast areas of the
world that are so important to us that it would
reduce us to to unimportance
but we better see to it that through the United
Nations or otherwise we get this fester of
hormosis settled And the best way seemed to be to
get Formosa declared an independent nation with
some name other than China.
Formosa wasn't China before the Communists took
over. They were a province of China. Chiang
Kai-shek made it China. Well, this never
happened, so you see where we are now. We have made
our peace with China, but we haven't resolved that
matter of Formosa, and that will always be a debit
on our account until it's settled.
That's just another example. Let's go to the
Pentagon. This is the first chance you had to move
into the Pentagon. This is the hub of the military,
and you moved there in July 1953 and stayed until
August 1956 in two different jobs. Let's describe
those jobs to begin with. Staff officer,
organization and training division, office of
assistant chief of staff. Yes. Of course, the
function of the army general staff was to
establish the policies for the army, promulgate
the policies for the army. do the planning for the
Army, overall planning, and the budgeting for the
resources of the Army, procurement there of those
resources. In the training field, which I was in
initially, we basically set training policy in
that shop. We developed training policy to be
promulgated by the Army Chief of Staff and
Secretary of the Army. And this had to do with, at
the time, Training sounds like a simple term, and
it is, because in the course of our career, most of
our time spent training. The interesting thing at
the time, of course, was training in nuclear
weapons. They were new to us. We still, in 1953, had
not become accustomed to them, so that was one of
the challenges, nuclear training. Of course,
this is the time that the American Armed Forces are
still having above-atmosphere bomb testing.
Were you in any way involved with those tests? I was
involved in the planning for them, yes, but I was
never on site. Actually, one thing I wanted to do
was to get on site and observe this nuclear weapon.
I never had the opportunity. Of course, at that
time, now we're reflecting, of course, on the The
radiation. The radiation that may have been
lasting effects, which are affecting the health
of people who were there, and I'm sure that more is
going to be learned of that. At the time, safety was
a very, very important aspect of it, of course, and
the extreme precautions were taken to shield the
people. And, of course, safety is always primary
in Well, just shooting artillery, for example,
for practice. But I'm sure that, obviously, we've
learned a lot about them since that we didn't know
then. Now, I don't know really how to evaluate this
problem because I've never seen the data on what we
know now versus what we knew then on the
penetration of this radiation. We were just in the
exploratory phase as far as nuclear weapons and as
far as— We had to learn. We had to learn more about
this weapon, this family of weapons. And I thought
at the time that these were very
forward actions being taken, you know, and
courageous in many ways to undertake those tests
like we did to find out more about it. Now, what
those dangers were, as we look back in retrospect,
we're going to know more about, I'm sure, in short
order. I believe the state and the legislature and
the federal government have both recently passed
bills that are going to create the resources to not
only treat the people who've been affected, you
know, to help them with their problem of
treatment, and the Agent Orange people from
Vietnam but also to study this more carefully so
that we learn more. Well, in the last few years in
the news, during the 1970s especially, some
journalists and other commentators have charged
that the Army was using their troops as guinea
pigs. What's your opinion of those charges?
Why don't we put that into English-specific
terms? What's a guinea pig? Well, using human
soldiers out there
for experiments. I think that to some extent that
was true because
we were conducting those tests to see what the
blast effects were on structures and troops.
military equipment, what the heat effects were,
what the radiation effects were. And I'm sure that
to some extent that was the purpose of those troops
being there. The other purpose was that they
become, shall we say, oriented to some degree in
what this really is.
But the Army felt that it had to start, of course,
positioning troops at an absolutely safe
distance
to measure the effects and not go closer than would
be considered safe. Now, I'm sure if what is being
implied that they were deliberately put into
unsafe areas to see what the effects would be, that
is not true. I think it's entirely possible that
they were put into a position that was considered
to be safe But the knowledge at the time led him to a
bad judgment.
What other types of testing besides nuclear,
because you were an expert in artillery, were you
also in charge of that at the Pentagon? No, being an
artilleryman had nothing to do with mine. I was a
general staff officer expected to handle any
subject in my field.
But you ask what else. At that time, of course, we
were preparing an artillery nuclear weapon. At
that time, we also were developing advanced
chemical weapons. These are the tedious ones that
come to mind.
How successful were you in these developments?
That's one of the things about serving in the
Pentagon that is a bit frustrating. What you do
there is seldom,
particularly in the areas of planning and
strategy, of course, the effects of what you've
done is seldom seen within a matter of the time
you're there. It's probably after you leave that
the impact is really visible. That's
particularly true in developments of new things.
For example, I just read this morning in one of my
military magazines that the field artillery's
computerized fire direction system is now being
deployed throughout the Army. When I was at Fort
Selle in 1961 as chief of research and the
development organization.
We initiated that
research on that specific system. And we
developed computer programs to try out on
commercial computers, because we didn't have any
in the Army. And do you know that that was twenty
years ago? Sure. That's an example of how long it
takes to really realize what you started in
development. It shouldn't have taken that long, I
might add, and I think it's disgraceful that it
did. And I think the major element in that is
decision time. Do you think the Pentagon works too
slowly, then? Without question.
Why is that?
I'm not a reactionary. I don't think we could go
back to the old ways of doing things and do them
better. But some of the principles that applied
then certainly apply now. If we'd go back to the
year that I entered the Army, 1941, the
development of that computer system or its
counterpart in those days would have been in the
province of the chief of field artillery on the
Army staff. And he would have made the basic
decisions on it. And when he said, I've got
something that's ready, the Chief of Staff of the
Army and the Secretary of the Army would have made
the final decision on it. And that would entail
then the proper program, budget, and money to buy
it, develop it and buy it. Today, the Secretary of
Defense makes that decision. It's ridiculous.
And when you count the Secretary of Defense or his
deputies, When you count the treatment then of
this problem between the guys at Fort Sill who are
trying to develop this for the user in the field, or
trying to get the requirements stated and get it
developed, and count the contacts and the actions
between him now under the present system and the
Office of the Secretary of Defense, it's
absolutely miraculous that anything ever gets
out.
It's the most disappointing thing, and by the way,
we'll get down the line, I was in the development
business as a major general before I went to the
Pentagon as chief legislative liaison.
And it's one of the most disappointing things in my
service to see how encumbered we are.
And it's a result of putting the dollar focus first
on everything. Certainly you can't You can't
ignore the dollar. God knows we can't afford the
dollars we really need to prepare. But when you put
the decisions on weapons and weapon-supporting
systems,
materiel, in the hands of civilians, I'm not
questioning civilian authority, they can only
think in terms of dollars because they don't
understand the weapon system. Really. Really.
how this is going to be used and what the real need
is.
And we're going to have to
return to the principle that the user, the guy in
uniform, has got the loudest voice and what is
going to be produced for him or we're going to be in
real trouble. We're already in real trouble. Now
I'm critical of some of that CBS program recently
on national security of the United States, but
they pointed up some of these points. What was the
difference between your first job from July 53 to
April 54 and then April 54 to August 56 when you were
shifted to assistant executive officer? What was
the difference in that?
assistant executive officer. Well, it's very
different. And if you'd like, I'll outline what
the assistant executive officer is. I was
assistant to the executive officer. The
executive officer was a colonel, and he's the man
in the office of the assistant chief of staff, G-3.
We had four general officers up there, the G-3 and
three assistants. And that colonel was the fellow
that they turned to to get this done or bring me this
kind of advice and so forth. He was really his, you
might say, if you could think of it, his chief of
staff. The G3's chief of staff. And I was the
assistant chief of staff in those terms. This
meant that all this whole area of responsibility
of training, operations, plans came to a focus at
this office.
And therefore,
much of these actions, of course, are handled on
paper and in specific formats. As a matter of fact,
when a paper is put on one of those generous desks,
the whole story is on the top sheet in summary. Then
they can get into as much detail as he wants to. Only
one sheet.
One sheet of paper on the top. So did you do a lot of
drafting then? No, I did the managing of getting it
done and of getting into the details that they
didn't want to deal with after they'd seen the
summary. I had to read every one of those papers
before it went into them. And then if they take
whatever instruction they had with regard to that
action after they had dealt with it, often I would
take it in and actually present it to them
verbally. In fact, I say often, that was more the
rule than the exception. This meant that I had to
prepare myself in that specific topic.
There had been hundreds of staff hours of work,
staff officers' work, gone into it in many cases
because it's not just the guy preparing it. But he
has to coordinate it with those who have an
interest in it, not only in G-3 but G1 personnel or
G2 intelligence or G4 logistics. And I felt a great
responsibility that if I was going to go in there
and present this for a decision that I understood
it and that I presented it correctly. No general
can sit there and read every one of these papers
that have all that background behind that top
sheet. So they'd want a briefing. So they'd want a
briefing and that was the Many of these, of course,
were very simple. Some of them were very complex
and very important. But I could get so much of this
out of their way and conserve the time of the staff
officers who worked on it by preparing myself,
taking in, presenting, and getting a decision,
and I'd write out the decision to go back for
implementation. I'd write out the decision made
as expressed by the general officer who made the
decision. Perhaps it was one he made a
recommendation because it had to go on to the Chief
of Staff, maybe the Secretary of the Army, maybe
the Secretary of Defense, depending. Some even to
the President occasionally. So anyway, I was just
a flunky, but at the same time I got into the stream
of information on this and knowledge and
consideration on it by virtue of the fact that I was
an administrator
who was presenting the problems in many instances
to the decision-maker. Now, in some of these very
complex cases, it would be clear to me that I should
not present it because it takes so much
preparation, background, and knowledge on the
subject that I would simply call the division
chief concerned and request that they present it.
They present it, having dealt with it, by briefing
to the General and then set it up with the General.
Now did your opinion of the Pentagon and the
workings of the Pentagon change before you went to
the Pentagon and while you were there and after you
left? Did my opinion change? Yeah. What did you
think of how the Army was run?
sort of a parallel to my description of going back
to A&M on the staff. You know, at a distance you
respect higher authority and don't know the
details and don't realize that there are some
little fights and fusses and rough spots that you
never see, but when you're there you see them. But I
was very proud of the effectiveness and
efficiency of the Army staff. The more I came to
know it, the more I believed in it as a system, and it
is a system. Sure. that we used was basically
created with the Germans, you know. And it's
sound. It's been used for years and years. I do
think that
subsequently
we've gotten off to excellence because we don't
have
a general staff system really anymore. we have the
whiz kids staff system the McNamara system we'll
get to McNamara we'll give you a full chance it's
confused the lines of action and staffing
procedures so that well it's what adds these years
to our getting where we want to go in my opinion now
we'll get to McNamara we're going to talk about him
he's very important
I've heard that The Pentagon consumes long hours.
Is that what you found? Indeed. Matter of fact, on
this job I've just described to you, seldom would I
get out of the— I'd be there early before anybody
had came in that office in the morning. How early?
Oh, I'd usually be there by 7 or 7.30. And rarely did
I ever get out of there before 7 at night, sometimes
later. It might be interesting to mention— that
the executive officer to whom I was assistant was
then Colonel Harold K. Johnson, who became Chief
of Staff of the Army.
So, I had some very good guidance, and he was doing
the managing, and I was doing the flunky work in
there and keeping that office going. How was he as a
leader? Tremendous. Tremendous.
if not the most admired man, one of the most in my
career. He, an interesting thing,
he had one of the most brilliant minds, one of the
most human personalities, and one of the most
dedicated commitments to service anyone ever
knew. and very religious. He was a victim of the
death march at the time. He was a prisoner of the
Japanese through that whole ordeal, and he was
liberated at the end of the war. He was a very
corresponding and strong man when he went in, but
he came out stronger in character.
I'm sure he never had an idol moment mentally
during his captivity because he just maintained
his sharpness and his vision and so well most
people who went through that ordeal were damaged
to some extent but not him and I've seen others who
weren't who came out stronger too as a result of
that so anyway he was a he was a fine mentor He
was chief staff during the Vietnam War. Yeah. You
went from the Pentagon to the Army War College, and
then you went right after that in November 1957 as a
colonel to the Strategic Intelligence School and
the Language School, in which you stayed for about
a year and a half until June 1959 before you went to
Yugoslavia. Let's talk about the Intelligence
School. All right.
At the Army War College, as you're completing your
year, you get your assignment, your next
assignment. They come up and tell you first before
they issue the orders. Well, they told me that I had
been selected as military attache to Yugoslavia.
And I said, I don't want that job. Really? And they
said, well, it's yours. Why? Why didn't you want
it? Well, in Venezuela, I had observed an attache
at work, and he became a good friend. And he was a
very pleasant person, and I liked him. I saw
something of him later. But he was military
attaché to Venezuela, and he was over to our
mission frequently, and I didn't see that he had a
job to do. As it turns out, that's pretty much true
when you're attaché to an allied country or a very
friendly country, but it's quite different in a
country that's not that close to us, like
Yugoslavia being a communist country and so forth
and so on. After all, the primary function of an
attaché is military intelligence. particularly
strategic intelligence. In other words, the
things that are going to be important for the long
pull or for the longer range of time. So anyway, I
just didn't say much about it. Of course, in my
class were people who'd been in personnel and
intelligence and in attaché duty, and so I went
around asking them, how do I get out of this? Almost
to a man they said, don't. don't even try. I
thought, really, honestly, and I say I'm naive,
but I thought that the Army only took volunteers
for military out-of-shade duty because of the
peculiar aspects
of the—you're attached to an embassy, you see, and
you're really on diplomatic status, and you're
very heavily committed to a social calendar.
Sure. Absolutely. And this is the other thing.
That never appealed to me. In fact, that, to me,
appeared to be a burden and a debilitator. So I
thought, and also in some posts, it used to be, it
wasn't at this time, it used to be, and this kind of
got into the knowledge of the position, that
they'd select officers who had additional, you
know, extra income, resources, because they'd
spend more than they made. Well, that wasn't true
at the time I went on duty because in order to send
whoever they wanted to, Part of the reason, they
provided the necessary allowances to cover those
extra expenses. But anyway, they said, don't try
to get out. First of all, you probably can't.
Secondly, if you try too hard, don't. Or even if you
do succeed, it's going to damage you. It's going to
damage your record, your assignment probability
for the next assignment. Not that people are going
to be unfair, but you just declared that you're not
willing to do what you're told to do. You know that
doesn't fit. So anyway, it took a year and a half to
prepare for that assignment, and that was only a
two-year assignment. And that seems
extravagant. It sure does. And it is very
expensive. I bet. And it really, and I recommended
that it be made a three-year assignment to make it
more cost effective. Now, the reason I didn't
extend is that, strangely enough, when I got on
post to do my two-year job if I didn't tell them
within a month or so, as I recall, a very short
period of time. Well, obviously, if it takes a year
and a half to prepare, they've got to know right
away. I didn't know whether I wanted to extend or
not. And it was a two-year assignment because it
was not considered a desirable assignment. It
was, you know, rough on the family.
So anyway, that year and a half preparation
included six months of strategic intelligence
school. In which you studied? In which, uh, We were
oriented on really what the importance of
strategic intelligence, how it's gathered, how
it's put together, and what it means to the nation,
to the Army. Where was that school? It was in
Washington, and that was very valuable. And it
did, of course, have a period of time devoted to
attache functions and how best to approach those.
You're your own boss, pretty much. you know,
profiting from the guidelines the Army gives and
the experiences of others. Then I went to the Army
Language School to study the Yugoslav language,
and that was absolutely essential because
English is... You just can't get by. You couldn't
then, anyway. You could not get that job done in
English now. There's just no way to do it. And, of
course, the Army realized that. Well, why do you
think they picked you for this job? I think the...
The basic reason that I was chosen for that job was
because of my experience in Venezuela, which was
not without a reason.